
### Author's Notebook 

This is something that I've been wanting to build for a while.  It's purpose is to provide a place for keeping track of various aspects of books that an author is writing.  It is able to keep track of details about characters, organizations, systems, and even storylines.  I would like to make it so it's publicly available, and that any authors (aspiring and published) can use it to help them organize their stories.  I want to make it automate a number of things, but the biggest part is to make it very dynamic and to allow for storage of all different kinds of notes.  In order to make it publicly available however, it needs to at least be able to pay for itself.  I'm not talking about the time I spent/spend working on it, but the costs of hosting the website, the db, and the url.  Until I'm sure it's capable of doing those things, I can't let everyone have access to it.

This is version 1 of instructions of how to use it.  If I make it available for anyone, I'll update it with some video instructions.

One thing you need to know is that this is a hobby project of mine.  I'm working on it by myself for now.  I've got a real job, and I've got a family, so this isn't my top priority, but that being said I do care about this probject, and I do plan to get to all the things that are on my to do list.

If you want to do more than just look at the things others have put on (and which they're allowing you to see), then you'll have to register.  Making it use Facebook and/or Google authentication is on my to do list.  I know how to do that, but I just haven't gotten around to it.  So, for now, just register and login.  It currently doesn't send any emails, so if you forget your password or something, you'll have to reach out to me, and I can straighten it out.  Again, that kind of thing is also on my to do list.

Once you're logged in then you're able to start keeping track of things.

The first thing you create is currently called a World.  This is a holdover from when I was calling this my World Building App because I was aiming it for Fantasy/Sci-Fi authors (like me), but I realized that it could be used for anything really.  If anyone has any suggestions for something to call this instead of World, I'm open to considering other options.  Currently I'm considering changing it to 'Project', and I may do that before showing it to anyone other than family and close friends.  Anyway, a World is basically the root of everything.  Different Worlds aren't connected to each other.  Each World has a Name, and you can choose whether or not to make it Public.  If it's not Public then only the Owner (whoever created it) is able to see it.  If it is Public then anyone can see it, but only the Owner can edit it.  (Planned Future Features: When you create a new world you can use a template which will include generic Types common to that type of World, such as Character, Location, etc.  I'm also planning to add the ability for Owners to add Collaborators to their World.  Collaborators would be able to see the World, and the Owner would be able to control their other permissions as well (create/edit type, delete type, create/edit thing, and delete thing.).  Only the Owner will have the ability to Edit or Delete the World itself, but they will be able to make someone else the Owner.)

Within a World you are able to define Types.  Basically a Type is just that.  It's a Type of Thing that you want to keep track of.  In each Type you are able to define attributes which that Type of Thing share, such as Characters having Age, Race, Gender, Height, Weight, Skin Color, Eye Color, etc.  Types can also be hierarchical through inheritance.  For example, in Harry Potter I would have a 'Character' Type with all the attributes I listed above, but then I could have a 'Witch or Wizard' Type which has 'Character' as a Super Type.  This means that 'Witch or Wizard' already has all those same Attributes as 'Character', but you can add more Attributes like Wand, Known Spells, etc.  The way to set the Super Types for a type is with a control called a Multi Select.  It's basically a textbox, but as you type it gives you suggestions.  You click a suggestion and it adds a chip showing it as selected.  Clicking the x on the right of the chip unselects it.  When selecting a Type to be a Super Type it adds all the Attributes of that Type to the Type you're creating or editing, but they are greyed out and disabled for editing.  The reason they're grey and disabled is that they come from a Super Type, so their definition is there.  If a Super Type is removed then the Attributes remain, but are no longer grey and disabled.  They can then be edited.  There are a few more things to note however.  First is that when adding a Super Type which has Super Types, those Super Types will be added as well.  An example of this could be the 'Animagus' Type in Harry Potter.  'Animagus' has the Super Type 'Witch or Wizard', which has the Super Type 'Character', so when defining 'Animagus' I could add 'Witch or Wizard' as a Super Type, and that will automatically add 'Character' as well.  Removing a Super Type of other Super Types will remove all Sub Types of the Super Type removed.  An example of that would be removing 'Character' from 'Animagus'.  This would automatically remove 'Witch or Wizard' as well.  It doesn't make sense to do that for 'Animagus', but it may be necessary for you if you want to rethink how you're organizing things.  The last thing to note about removing Super Types is that so long as a single Super Type exists which has an Attribute with that name, it will be greyed out and disabled.  Another note about Attributes is that their names have to be unique on the Type (or Thing).  It's generally a good idea to make sure that any Attributes you define with the same name also have the same Attribute type as well, otherwise you may run into Attribute name collisions.  One last thing about Types.  I've added an option to Types called Major Type.  If it's checked then the Type is considered a Major Type and will show up in places of the UI where a regular Type will not.  This makes finding, creating, and editing Things of that Type easier.  I would make 'Character' a Major Type, but 'Witch or Wizard' and 'Animagus' would be regular Types.  (Planned Future Features: Template Types like I have above for Template Worlds, but they're individual Types.  Also add Plural Name field which will be used in the UI for places where we put the plural name of something.  Currently it just adds an 's' to the end of the Type name, and I want to continue to do that if the Plural Name is left empty, but if it's not empty then display the Plural Name instead.)

Types have Attributes (as mentioned above).  Things (which I'll get into more below) also have Attributes.  The same Attributes really.  In the Harry Potter World the Attributes on the 'Character' Type would then be given to every character you create afterward, but now instead of naming the Attribute and saying what type of Attribute it is, you get to specify a value for the Attribute.  

An Attribute is anything you may wish to keep track of for anything.  These do not include Name or Description, because all Types and Things always have Name and Description by default.  Attributes are for anything else you want to keep track of.  It could be a relationship like 'Friend', 'Family Member', 'Significant Other', 'Coworker', etc.  It could be skills and abilities, or possessions, or jobs, or home address, or work or school schedule.  Really anything you want to keep track of which is part of something can be an Attribute.  Currently there are six types of Attributes that are supported: Text, Number, True/False, Options, Type, and List.  Text is just that.  A Text Attribute gives you a textbox where you can type anything you want to keep track of.  Number gives you a number box, which is like a textbox but it only accepts numbers, and it has arrows on the right which can be used to increment or decrement the number.  True/False gives you a checkbox.  Options allows you to specify possible choices for the Attribute, and then they show up in a drop down list (A quick example of this could be 'Gender' having 'Male', 'Female', and others if you wanted.  They can have as many options as you want, and it can be used for whatever Attribute you want.).  Specifying the choices is done using a control called a Chip Input.  This looks like a regular textbox, but whenever you hit enter the text in it is added as a chip.  Chips show the text, but have an x on their right which can be used to remove them.  It's basically like the Multiselect except without the suggestions.  The Chips are the choices that will be in the drop down list which the user has when creating or editing a Thing with that Attribute.  

The last two Attribute types are a little more complicated.  

When adding Attributes to a Type, the 'Type' Attribute type allows you to then choose from the various Types you've defined for the World, and then when you're creating or editing a Thing (such as the 'Character' 'Harry Potter') you would get all the Things of that Type as choices in a drop down list.  For example you could have a 'Best Friend' Attribute which has the Attribute type of 'Type' and uses the Defined Type of 'Character'.  Then when editing Harry you would have a drop down list which shows all the 'Characters' you've added to the World as possible 'Best Friends'.  You would of course then choose 'Ron Weasley' (Sorry, Hermione, but you're a close second.).  

The Attribute Type 'List' is still more complicated than 'Type'.  It allows you to decide which type of 'List' it's going to be.  For now it only supports 'Text', 'Options', and 'Type'.  (I'm not planning to add any others, but if it's requested I may consider it.  A List of Text could be anything really, so other types shouldn't be necessary.)  If an Attribute is defined as a List of Text then when creating or editing a Thing the Attribute gives a Chip Input, which works the same as it does for Options (described above).  A List of Options allows you to define the choices when creating or editing the Type, the same as with a regular Options Attribute, and then when creating or editing a Thing of that Type it gives a Multiselect which works the same as when choosing Super Types (described above) with the Options defined previously on the Type as the suggestions.  A List of 'Type' allows you to choose a Defined Type (like with the Attribute type 'Type'), but when creating or editing a Thing it gives you a Multiselect instead of a regular drop down list so you can select more than one.  With all 'List' Attributes, the items in the list are displayed separated by commas when looking at the details page rather than creating or editing.  

One last note about Attributes of type 'Type' or 'List' of 'Type'.  I've made it so that if you want to choose a Defined Type which you haven't defined yet you can choose '+ Create New Type' and it opens a quick little window (modal for those who care) which lets you define a Type using just the name you want it to have.  You'll have to edit that Type later to give it any Super Types or Attributes it should have, but you can create it there so you can continue defining the Type you're already working on rather than having to leave and come back to it.  The same thing can be done when creating or editing a Thing with an Attribute of type 'Type' or 'List' of 'Type', but for Things the Type has already been chosen.  Now you will be creating a Thing of that Type.  An example of this would be if you're editing the 'Character' 'Harry Potter', but when you get to 'Best Friend' you realize you haven't added the 'Ron Weasley' 'Character' yet.  You would choose '+ Create New Character', and then in the quick little window you would type 'Ron Weasley'.  He would get added as a blank character with just his Name, but he would then be selected as Harry's 'Best Friend', and you could finish defining Harry, and get to Ron later.

(Planned Future Features: Other Attribute types, including: Image, Event, and External Link.  If you have any suggestions of others, feel free to recommend them.  Also allow Types to have Default values for Attributes, but that will create the possibility of Default Collisions, similar to Name Collisions.)

And that brings us to Things.  If you've gotten to this point, then you probably already understand what Things are, but I'll outline it anyway.  The generic term Thing is used to mean any actual thing you're keeping track of.  This would be your Characters, your Places, your Items, Spells, whatever.  When creating or editing a Thing you are able to choose Types for the Thing (works the same as Super Types for Types), and all the Attributes of those Types are added to the Thing, but now you're able to give values for them.  Again remember to avoid Attribute Name collisions (If for some reason you've defined 2 unrelated Types with an Attribute that has the same name but different Attribute types then you won't be able to have a Thing of both Types.).  If a Type is edited to remove an Attribute, Things which use that Type and existed already will still have that Attribute.  It will just be an orphaned Attribute.  Currently there's no way to remove Attributes from Things.  If a Type is edited to add Attributes then Things which already existed will gain those Attributes as soon as they're edited again.  If a Type is edited and an Attribute is changed... I'm not actually sure what would happen to Things that already exist which have that Type.  I'll have to test that.  That's really it for Things.  They're the simple part.  (Planned Future Features: I'm planning to add the ability to add/remove/edit orphaned Attributes for Things.  When I do, I'll probably try to find a way to make it so with adding/editing orphaned Attributes you'll be able to add the Attribute to a selected Type already on the Thing.)

I probably should have put Attributes below Things, but oh well.

Other Planned Future Features:

Forums: I'm going to have a General Site Forum, and each World will automatically get its own Forum.
Direct Messages: I'll add a simple messaging system to allow people to communicate directly with one another.
Auto-links: For both Forums and DMs I'll allow users to put links to pages through a simple system similar to hashtags in Social Media.  I'm thinking I also want to add this capability to Descriptions on Types and Things.
Following Public Worlds: Currently all Public Worlds are listed in the menu, but I should make it so only those that the user follows are shown there, and have a button to pull up the full list, and add a button for people who neither own or collaborate on a Public World to 'Follow' the World.
Home Page content: I'm planning to have actual Home Page content.  This will have a link to a video tutorial for new users (which I have yet to make, and will need occasional updating after it's made), as well as things like recent software changes.  I also want to make it so it can automatically have links to recently added or edited Types or Things and recent Forum posts which may be of interest to the user.
Admin: I'm planning to add some Admin tools that Admin users will have access to for setting things like Home Page content, locking Forum threads, or helping users with issues.  Typical site admin stuff.

### Building and Running

This uses two docker images, one for the client and one for the server.  The easiest way for me to run it is to have two terminals open to their directories and running 

`npm start`

in server and then in reactapp.

This should all be done automatically once I get the site hosted on AWS.

### Current bugs

None that I'm aware of.

### Additional TODOs

Move a bunch of things from Views into Components.
Change SelectedWorld stuff to be able to have different Worlds open in different tabs.
Do Worlds for famous story worlds for people to see as examples: Harry Potter, Cosmere, LOTR, Star Wars, Dresden, VTM, Vampire Diaries, etc.
AWS
Terraform
CircleCI
Experiment with removing to links.  Use Redirects instead.  I think that will lessen reloads.
More session usage.  Use SmartStore idea.  It gets things from store if loaded or automatically gets it from API if not.  Basically a cache, but sometimes we want to make sure it reefreshes the cache.
Smaller Create new buttons.
Confirm Email
Reset Password
SSO with Facebook/Google
List filtering 
General Encryption
World Encryption (Owner is the only one who gets access to World, and they have to enter a key for encryption/decryption which is only stored in their browser session.  If they lose the key then it's just gone.)
World Export (Creates a single Json file which has everything from the World in it and downloads it.)
On Type Details pages add '+ Create New Sub Type' button
Make it so session logout responses trigger a redirect to the login page.  Also find a way to keep it from happening so much.  I've increased the session length to 1 hour, and I'm thinking I also want to add a 'stay logged in' option, which will make it periodically ping the server to keep the session alive.


